# Project Goals

## Dataset
We will be using a dataset retrieved from the Stanford Large Network Dataset Collection. Our dataset will represent a network of Bitcoin OTC traders who rate each other every time that a transaction is made. This will be a weighted, directed graph. The direction of the edges will represent who rated whom. If there is a edge from A to B, then A rated B (despite B selling to A). The weight for each edge will be a rating of "trustworthyness" from buyer to seller. The rating system includes ratings [-10,10]. The dataset is contained in a `.csv` file. It will be processed by importing the entire file into VSCode. From there, we will use `readFromFile` to read the `.csv` file line one line at a time. For each line, we will use string manipulation to get the variables of interest for each edge.

Link to Dataset: http://snap.stanford.edu/data/soc-sign-bitcoin-otc.html

## Algorithms
We will be implementing both the PageRank algorithm, as well as Dijkstra's algorithm. We will also create a BFS traversal for the graph. For PageRank, the input will be a vertex, and the output will be the PageRank value belonging to that vertex. For Dijkstra's, the input will be a starting and ending vertex. It will be necessary that the two vertices are connected and exist on the same "island" of vertices (we expect disconnected components in our dataset). Since we are using ratings as weights, the output will be the "worst quality" connection between the two vertices. That is, if there are two vertices A and B, how can we get from A to B along a path of the most poorly rated transactions? This will require all ratings to be increased +11, so that the algorithm will not encounted any negative values. For BFS, the input will be a starting vertex, and the graph to iterate through. The output for BFS can be either the shortest path (if we input a valid end vertex), or simply the printing of every vertex connected to the start.

## Deliverables
To show the completeness of our methods, we will demonstrate our results in our `main.cpp` executable. Here we will show the answers to our leading questions. The user will input a starting and ending vertex, and the shortest path between the vertices will be shown in the output. The PageRank values for each vertex on the path and their average rating will be shown as well to show the correlation between these two values.

## Timeline
The first week we will spend researching and planning out our solutions to our problems along with making decisions on how to solve them by drafting pseudo code. We expect to have at least one of our algorithms/traversals finished by the Mid-Project Check-in. At the bare minimum, we should have a skeleton of our classes completed by that time. As we make progress, we will ensure that out code always complies without errors, even if it is not functional. By the next week we'd like to have made a rough draft on both algorithms and traversal. The week after we'd like to have at least one of our deliverables completed and significant progress on the other two. The last few weeks we expect to finish out testing and tweaking our code. We plan to have our code finished by 5/10, so that we can spend the last week on our presentation.
